.if n .ds Q \&"
.if t .ds Q ``
.if n .ds U \&"
.if t .ds U ''
.TH "HFSP" 1 
.tr \&
.nr bi 0
.nr ll 0
.nr el 0
.de DS
..
.de DE
..
.de Pp
.ie \\n(ll>0 \{\
.ie \\n(bi=1 \{\
.nr bi 0
.if \\n(t\\n(ll=0 \{.IP \\(bu\}
.if \\n(t\\n(ll=1 \{.IP \\n+(e\\n(el.\}
.\}
.el .sp 
.\}
.el \{\
.ie \\nh=1 \{\
.LP
.nr h 0
.\}
.el .PP 
.\}
..
NAME

.Pp
\fBhfsp\fP \fBhfsplus\fP - Collection of tools to acces
HFS+ volumes.
.Pp
DESCRIPTION

.Pp
The hfsplus collection cotains tools to read and display the files
found on an HFS+ formatted volume. HFS+ is the volume format
intodruced by Apple Computer inc. around MacOS 8. The HFS+ format
uses a better approach to acces large volumes and allows files
with a size up to 2[circ  ]64 bytes. In Addition filenames are saved 
as two-byte unicode with a length upto 255 (unicode) characters.
.Pp
In contrast to its sucessor, the hfs-tools hfsplus does not use
the volume/directory/file/ syntax using ':' as delimiter but
uses the standard unix '/', '..' and '.' notation. Since this
concept is not fully supported my HFS+ not all combinations
will be understood.
.Pp
EXAMPLES

.Pp
This example mounts my main HFS+ volume, shows some files and copies
one to the linux side:
.DS
.sp 
.ft RR
.nf
> hpmount /dev/hda13
> hpls
Apple Extras     Desktop Folder   MP3              Systemordner
Benutzer         Develop          Programme        Temporary Items
Bibel            Dokumente        Spiele           VM Storage
> hpcd Develop
> hpcd Test
> hppwd
/Aida/Develop/Test
hpcopy -t Test.cp .
> hpumount
.DE
.fi 
.ec
.ft P
.sp
.Pp
FILES

.Pp
\fB$HOME/.hfsplusvolume\fP
This file is created by hpmount and removed by hpunmount. It contains
the volume name and the current directory id.
.Pp
BUGS

.Pp
There are some bugs related to uniocde handling and the large file
sizes not supported by some older formats (binhex, macbinary).
See the developer documenatation for details
.Pp
SEE ALSO

.Pp
hpmount(1), hpumount(1), hpls(1), hpcd(1), hppwd(1), hpcopy(1), 
hfsutils(1),
.Pp
.SH AUTHORS

.Pp
Klaus Halfmann  \f(CR[lt    ]halfmann@libra.de[gt    ]\fP
.Pp
